When I realised that I could not use my Scratch-designed platformer to start a
video games company, aged 11, I decided to learn how to program in Python and
Java. This led me to undertake various coding projects (see
https://orimarash.com/) in contexts as varied as business and Physics. In 2018,
I created a beta website for ExpressTrack, a package tracking company. I wrote
scrapers which took data from couriers’ websites, such as FedEx and UPS, and
displayed the information clearly for the user. I created a test suite to make
sure my new updates would not break old ones, especially as the volume of
traffic was over 250 000 requests a year. Buoyed by the google rankings increase
and the satisfaction derived from this project, I have decided to pursue a
degree in Computer Science.

My experience at ExpressTrack helped me secure a place at Summer School at the
Weizmann Institute of Science in July 2019. I worked on a research project which
focused on detecting super-radiance in particles which could be used to detect
dark matter. My team created a program which took data from a data logger,
analysed it and then displayed information about the different photomultiplier
tubes, so that they could be calibrated. This taught me how to work in a team of
programmers as up until now I had been working by myself. I gained insight on
working in a group and I am excited to participate in further group projects
throughout the course.

As I'm interested in Physics, I applied and was selected for the Imperial
College Summer School which was centred around modelling simple harmonic motion
using Python. My role in our small team was to program an algorithm which
analysed videos of a pendulum swinging to find the vector from the starting
point. This enabled me to calculate exactly how much the pendulum swings at any
point in time, in order to calculate dampening. Finding that the algorithm was
effective was highly rewarding.

I find that I learned well by engaging with practical projects, so much so that
I delivered a TEDx talk on Project-Based Learning (PBL) and how schools can use
it to teach more effectively (see https://orimarash.com/ted). I have been a
tutor for web development and Computer Science A-level using the PBL method. For
my Computer Science A-level coursework, I am designing and building a Learning
Management System built for PBL. I have interviewed potential users (students,
teachers, admin) to make sure it is optimised for them. Furthermore, I was paid
to add to a feature to the school’s existing LMS to enable Heads of Department
to monitor homework setting of teachers.

I enjoy making links between Maths and Computer Science such as when I used
the knowledge I gained from reading "Discrete Mathematics" by R. Johnsonbaugh to
solve a few of the British Informatics Olympiad questions. I completed Grow with
Google’s "Machine Learning Crash Course" which gave me practical knowledge of
machine learning. I have an interest in cybersecurity and attended an online
lecture about Cloud Security Strategies at AWS. I was struck by the depth
required to safeguard security, from every processor to the entire organisation.
I have learned more about cybersecurity and privacy by listening to a Strachey
lecture.

Using the connections and resources offered by HackClub, an online community
providing tools and contacts, I co-founded my school’s HackClub where we teach
students how to code through working on projects once a week. I am currently
working on a website which teaches programming online. The goal is to have a
platform which helps students learn how to code through doing, rather than
theory. Outside of computing, I enjoy cooking Italian cuisine, I play electric
bass and attained a distinction in Grade 8 piano.

I am an enthusiastic Computer Scientist and look forward to being able to build
ever more exciting programs as my knowledge grows.
