I have been frustrated by the lack of depth Computer Science A-level has gone
into, in general, and especially on the steps between using logic gates to make
processors. I am keen to grapple with the detail of these devices which I could
do on the Cambridge course, for example in Year Two’s Gates to Processors. I am
keen to focus on the fundamentals of Computer Science such as the underlying
Mathematics, system design, ethics and software development, as the Cambridge
course does, rather than a multitude of programming languages. I am also excited
to participate in group projects throughout the course and collaborate with
businesses on real- life tasks. I am sure I would particularly benefit from the
supervision system, discussing my detailed ideas with tutors and fellow students
who share my fascination with Computer Science. I love challenging myself with
Computer Science problems which I set for myself and encounter through my work
experience. Examples include writing the user-friendly ‘use- firebase’ function
which optimises a Google package resulting in the faster loading of a website
and designing an API to check the best rates for transferring money between
currencies.

---

I have been reading extensively about computer vision. I was struck by how a
seemingly simple task of recognising a house took a great deal of machine
learning. I listen to the Strachey lectures and was fascinated by the notion
that AI can be used as a helper tool to perform business negotiations.

I have designed various educational tools. During the pandemic, I created a
website to facilitate teachers’ organisation of their responses when answering
student questions. I also designed a revision program which would remind me when
to revisit various topics to practise questions cyclically.
